MVP WATCH
(last week's averages in parentheses)
1) Stephen Curry (17.5 ppg, 6 rpg, 8 apg, .379 FG, 1,000 FT): He is not feeling your Carolina Panthers trolling this morning https://twitter.com/StephenCurry30/status/681229525095612416. (Don't let him see how Coach Shula celebrated the demise of the NFL's last unbeaten team.)
2) LeBron James (20.3 ppg, 7.3 rpg, 4 apg, .377 FG, .667 FT): The new Samsung ad with everyone, including LeBron, lip-synching Public Enemy's "Welcome to the Terrordome" is...outstanding.
3) Kawhi Leonard (20.8 ppg, 6 rpg, 4 apg, .493 FG, 1,000 FT): Paul George, who'll likely be an All-Star, is merely the latest (1-for-14 from the floor, a season-low seven points last week against San Antonio) to be shut down by the Claw.
4) Russell Westbrook (28 ppg, 7.3 rpg, 8.8 apg, .482 FG, .714 FT): When you're flirting with triple-doubles almost every night, you have to come up with routines to break the monotony of your dominance.

5) Kevin Durant (25 ppg, 7.5 rpg, 7.3 apg, .520 FG, .941 FT): Scored at least 20 points in every game since returning to the lineup Nov. 23 (hamstring).
Dropped out: Paul George

BY THE NUMBERS
1,154 -- Career coaching victories for Sacramento's George Karl, who remained one win behind Phil Jackson on Sunday for fifth place on the all-time coaching victories list after Sunday's loss to Portland, behind Don Nelson (1,335), Lenny Wilkens (1,332), Jerry Sloan (1,221) and Pat Riley (1,210).
719,235 -- Votes for Kobe Bryant after the first fan vote totals for the 2016 All-Star Game in Toronto. Bryant was far ahead of Stephen Curry (510,202 votes) and LeBron James (357,937), the east's leading vote-getter.
275 -- Consecutive games played by Portland's Damian Lillard, a streak that ended last week when Lillard missed the first game of his career, when the TrailBlazers played the Hawks. Per Elias, Lillard was the first player in league history to play that many games to begin his career with one team.
I'M FEELIN' ...
1) Many of you, I'm sure, are not happy with the NBA for becoming involved with Michael Bloomberg's organization, Everytown for Gun Safety, and having some of its players participate in a public service campaign against gun violence. It is your right to yell/Tweet "stick to sports" and to believe this is part of another liberal conspiracy to take away people's guns. If only we could all get out of our defensive crouches on this issue, and not be held prisoner by absolutist positions, and find some common ground that would lead to some common-sense restrictions which would make it just a little harder -- a little -- for criminals, and terrorists, and the mentally ill to get weapons of mass destruction with little or no pushback. If only that modest goal was something we could all support -- those who live in a culture of safe and responsible gun ownership, and want to continue passing along that culture to their children, and those who want nothing to do with guns. Is that too much for a great nation? We really can't find any area on which to agree on trying to limit the damage that has been inflicted on so many families? Democrats, Republicans, independents, the God fearing and the Godless -- everyone is getting shot. It needs to stop. Kudos to the NBA and its players for at least trying to do something about it.

2) Congrats to Dirk Nowitzki, now sixth on the NBA's all-time scoring list after passing Shaquille O'Neal. The Diggler is a great, great, great player, and he's still rolling.
3) Whatever you think of The Process, Sam Hinkie, Brett Brown or anyone else, the 76ers' players needed a moment in the sun, and got one Saturday in the Valley of the Sun. Good for them.
4) Way to own it, Steve Harvey.
5) Definitely should be looked at next September when baseball rosters expand.

NOT FEELIN' ...
1) It does not appear that the Rockets' problems went away when Kevin McHale was fired.
2) You can twist Mark Jackson's words about Steph Curry into a pretzel of outrage, and say that he's dissing Curry, or you can listen to what he actually said, which was that kids who only emulate Curry's three-point shooting -- which is what every highlight featuring Curry shows, night after night -- are not working on their complete games. As Jackson said, when Michael Jordan was in his prime, you didn't see highlights of Jordan's footwork in the post, or his hustle getting back on defense. People didn't marvel at his basketball IQ. They showed his dunks, endlessly, breathlessly, and said that was the essence of Jordan's greatness. And as with Jordan, fans -- and, kids -- that don't celebrate the years of work Curry has put into becoming a better ballhandler, a better passer, into getting stronger, into developing his left hand, aren't seeing the forest for the trees. "We don't fall in love with the things that made them great," Jackson said. "We fall in love with the things that they do great." And he is absolutely, 100 percent correct.
3) This is what I've been afraid of at Oracle. The intersection of want and need -- wanting to keep the existing East Bay fan base, but needing to raise enough capital to help offset the costs of the $1 billion venue the Warriors' owners are building in San Francisco -- often produces these results, where an arena is no longer filled with a team's true fans, but with more of those who think of a winning team the same way they do the hot new restaurant or club -- a place to be seen, and sampled, until the next new hot place comes along. Those are not the people who've given of themselves emotionally for decades, sharing the common bonding experience of rooting for a team that was so, so awful for so long.
4) I have no way of knowing the veracity of the Al Jazeera report that claims Human Growth Hormone use by Peyton Manning and other pro athletes. But it is always wise to let the denials die down, then go slowly and soberly through the charges before believing everything levied is true -- or false.
5) RIP, Dave Henderson. You talk about a guy who could flat-out hit, and did so in the most pressure-filled situations for Boston and Oakland -- almost always with a smile.
TWEET OF THE WEEK
-- Mavericks center Zaza Pachulia (@zaza27), Thursday, 2:18 a.m., modestly and facetiously detailing his role in Dirk Nowitzki's offensive renaissance this season, including his passing of Shaquille O'Neal on Wednesday for sixth place on the NBA's all-time scoring list.
THEY SAID IT
"Every coach has his own personality. You can't be something you're not. Fred is a young coach. He has a lot to learn. I think the biggest challenge always is to create the vision you want for your team, lay it out and practice it every day, reinforce the things you want. And then the players have to get on the floor and play the way that you envision."
-- Bulls executive vice president John Paxson, in an interview with Chicago radio station WSCR on Christmas Day, on his new head coach Fred Hoiberg's adjustments to the pro game, in the wake of Jimmy Butler's comments last week that Hoiberg was too laid back and needed to coach the Bulls harder.
"Look, it was a 24-minute take-you-to-the-beach, kick-your-butt, kick-sand-in-your-face type deal. If it's going to be like that, these guys aren't going to be Mavericks very long. I can promise you that."
--Mavericks Coach Rick Carlisle, after his starters fell behind by 18 points in the first half to the Raptors Tuesday in Toronto.
"You can train a cat all you want to bark. The damn cat's not going to bark. It makes no sense to be yelling at it."
-- Kobe Bryant, on the Lakers' talent deficiencies, after the Lakers lost by 45 points to the Thunder Wednesday.
Longtime NBA reporter and columnist David Aldridge is an analyst for TNT. You can e-mail him here and follow him on Twitter.
The views on this page do not necessarily reflect the views of the NBA, its clubs or Turner Broadcasting. 